backend/readme.md, before:

# Preperatory Procedure to bring up an instance from scratch

- Create a new EC2 instance (debian t3.small).
- Create new rule and add port 8080 to incoming security group.
- Download the .pem file from security tab.
- Copy the 'Public DNS' from 'details' of the EC2 instance.
- Run the following commands :
```
chown 400 ~/Downloads/backend-pem.pem
ssh -i ~/Downloads/backend-pem.pem admin@ec2-3-80-417-313.compute-1.amazonaws.com
```

- Validate that shell connects to remote EC2 box (you can now diconnect and close the terminal)
- Run this same ssh command on VSC (SSH extension), and open the remote EC2 box on VSC.
- Open the terminal and run:
```
sudo apt update && sudo apt install git npm
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
mkdir repo/
cd repo
git clone https://github.com/manupatet/ik-genai-w4.git
cd ik-genai-w4
```

## Here starts the procedure for Codespaces (does not need preperatory steps dure to Dockerfile config)

Run these commands to setup the box for the build.

```
cd gdrive-mcp-server
npm install && npm run build
mkdir .credentials
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=.credentials/gcp_oauth_keys.json
export MCP_GDRIVE_CREDENTIALS=.credentials/.gdrive-server-credentials.json
```

Copy (Drag and drop) the `gcp_oauth_keys.json` file (that we obtained from GCP, rename if necessary), into the newly created `.credentials` folder.

Run this command to obtain access token from Google: 
```
node dist/index.js auth
```

This will open a browser for you and ask you to login with your Google credentials. If successful, it will create a file `gdrive-server-credentials.json` in `credentials` directory.

We're ready to run the server: `node dist/index.js`

This should start the MCP server locally on the box \[With this output: `Starting Google Drive MCP server`/]

Once that is verified, create a zip of the `gdrive-mcp-server`

```
tar -cf archive.tar ./
```

Copy (Drag and drop) the `backend.pem` file, that we downloaded for EC2 instance, and transfer it to the EC2 machine.
```
scp -i backend.pem archive.tar admin@ec2-54-81-28-442.compute-1.amazonaws.com:~/repo
```

## Running the backed server

Over on the EC2 machine, we need to `untar` the archive.tar in the correct directory, so that the build files are correctly laid out.
- Remove the `gdrive-mcp-server` folder from the downloaded github repo and unzip the file in its place:
```
rm -rf ~/repo/ik-genai-w4/gdrive-mcp-server/
mkdir ~/repo/ik-genai-w4/gdrive-mcp-server/
cd ~/repo/ik-genai-w4/gdrive-mcp-server/
tar -xf archive.tar
```

Add the two environment variables:
```
export GEMINI_API_KEY=<your-gemini-api-key>
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=.credentials/gcp_oauth_keys.json
export MCP_GDRIVE_CREDENTIALS=.credentials/.gdrive-server-credentials.json
```

Prepare the backend server to run:

```
uv venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
uv pip install .
uvicorn sheet_ai:app --host:0.0.0.0 --port 8080
```

Navigate to this URL http://ec2-54-81-28-421.compute-1.amazonaws.com:8080/docs

It should open and show swagger API interface, where you can test the APIs for their correct behaviour.

The backend runs the MCP server as a local internal process when it starts. Therefore, we need to copy these credentials to backend server also.

```
mkdir ../backend/credentials
cp -r credentials/ ../backend/
```

Commit message:

Update commands on readme.md

backend/readme.md, after:

# Preperatory Procedure to bring up an instance from scratch

- Create a new EC2 instance (debian t3.small).
- Create new rule and add port 8080 to incoming security group.
- Download the .pem file from security tab.
- Copy the 'Public DNS' from 'details' of the EC2 instance.
- Run the following commands :
```
chown 400 ~/Downloads/backend-pem.pem
ssh -i ~/Downloads/backend-pem.pem admin@ec2-3-80-417-313.compute-1.amazonaws.com
```

- Validate that shell connects to remote EC2 box (you can now diconnect and close the terminal)
- Run this same ssh command on VSC (SSH extension), and open the remote EC2 box on VSC.
- Open the terminal and run:
```
sudo apt update && sudo apt install git npm
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
mkdir repo/
cd repo
git clone https://github.com/manupatet/ik-genai-w4.git
cd ik-genai-w4
```

## Here starts the procedure for Codespaces (does not need preperatory steps dure to Dockerfile config)

Run these commands to setup the box for the build.

```
cd gdrive-mcp-server
npm install && npm run build
mkdir .credentials
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=.credentials/gcp_oauth_keys.json
export MCP_GDRIVE_CREDENTIALS=.credentials/.gdrive-server-credentials.json
```

Copy (Drag and drop) the `gcp_oauth_keys.json` file (that we obtained from GCP, rename if necessary), into the newly created `.credentials` folder.

Run this command to obtain access token from Google: 
```
node dist/index.js auth
```

This will open a browser for you and ask you to login with your Google credentials. If successful, it will create a file `gdrive-server-credentials.json` in `credentials` directory.

We're ready to run the server: `node dist/index.js`

This should start the MCP server locally on the box \[With this output: `Starting Google Drive MCP server`/]

Once that is verified, create a zip of the `gdrive-mcp-server`

```
tar -cf archive.tar ./
```

Copy (Drag and drop) the `backend.pem` file, that we downloaded for EC2 instance, and transfer it to the EC2 machine.
```
scp -i backend.pem archive.tar admin@ec2-54-81-28-442.compute-1.amazonaws.com:~/repo
```

## Running the backed server

Over on the EC2 machine, we need to `untar` the archive.tar in the correct directory, so that the build files are correctly laid out.
- Remove the `gdrive-mcp-server` folder from the downloaded github repo and unzip the file in its place:
```
rm -rf ~/repo/ik-genai-w4/gdrive-mcp-server/
mkdir ~/repo/ik-genai-w4/gdrive-mcp-server/
cd ~/repo/ik-genai-w4/gdrive-mcp-server/
tar -xf archive.tar
```

Add the two environment variables:
```
export GEMINI_API_KEY=<your-gemini-api-key>
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=.credentials/gcp_oauth_keys.json
export MCP_GDRIVE_CREDENTIALS=.credentials/.gdrive-server-credentials.json
```

Prepare the backend server to run:

```
uv venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
uv pip install .
uvicorn sheet_ai:app --host:0.0.0.0 --port 8080
```

Navigate to this URL http://ec2-54-81-28-421.compute-1.amazonaws.com:8080/docs

It should open and show swagger API interface, where you can test the APIs for their correct behaviour.

After this we need to deploy `ngrok` on this EC2

## NGROK setup on EC2

Set up Ngrok:
```
curl -sSL https://ngrok-agent.s3.amazonaws.com/ngrok.asc \
  | sudo tee /etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/ngrok.asc >/dev/null \
  && echo "deb https://ngrok-agent.s3.amazonaws.com bookworm main" \
  | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ngrok.list \
  && sudo apt update \
  && sudo apt install ngrok

ngrok config add-authtoken <your-key>

ngrok http http://localhost:8080
```

This last command starts ngrok server, which connects to ngrok cloud and makes this accessible to Vercel. 

Backend deployment is complete. Continue with Vercel deployment.

## Common Fixes
- Chatbot responds with "Please try again later".
 The most common issue is that of token expiration, refresh the token by running `node dist/index.js`, restart the backend server, and try again.

- The swagger-api Webpage does not open.
  Ensure that you have opened 8080 in your inbound ports on AWS EC2 console.
